In this module, we're going to discuss the Routing Information Protocol or RIP
RIP is an example of a dynamic routing protocol
multiple routing protocols exist including EIGRP, OSPF, IS-IS, BGP
but in this module, we're going to focus on RIP.
RIP is one of the oldest routing protocols and is one of the simplest protocols
it does, however, have some major throwbacks
when compared to routing protocols such as EIGRP and OSPF
however, RIP is popular in small businesses
so if you work in SMB environments you may come across RIP
some limitations of RIP include that it determines the best path based on hop count.
EIGRP and OSPF are more powerful routing protocols
and that they can use bandwidth as part of their routing calculation
RIP, however, simply uses a hop count to determine the best path to a destination.
RIP is also limited to 15 hops
and allows load balancing of up to 4 equal cost paths by default.
So in summary, RIP uses hop count to select the best path
allows for load balancing across equal paths
4 is the default but you can change that
it does not take bandwidth load or other metrics into account
when determining the best path, it simply looks at hop count.
RIP is an example of a distance vector routing protocol
please refer to the routing introductory videos
for a greater explanation of distance vector
versus advanced distance vector versus links state routing protocols.
One of the advantages of RIP. however. is that it’s very easy to configure
and in a small environment, you don't necessarily need
the scale and power of EIGRP as a routing protocol.
RIP is often good enough in small businesses.